Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Okay welcome everyone to this dialogue space V to our dialogue space and tighten both digital platforms, we are going to begin.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: A special welcome if it is, if this is the first time for you attending the yellow Conference, I am not sure about that.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: it's a joy to find safe spaces in these difficult times, and it will be wonderful meeting you in person in not hope, I hope I will long time.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: We will keep the other of speakers, as is it in the program in our first run and.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: feel can.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: don't rise, we are in a very familiar a space.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: feel free to put in the chat any question you have or simply say.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I want to to to do it.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Well, I am here to help with the timing and I am sure that the discussion will be very interesting.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: very moving.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: So let's go ahead, first with.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Diogo Marcus and anadarko.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: A language has a virus from figure of thought to experiment and laboratory go ahead.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: whenever you.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Do any work we're going to share our screen.
Okay.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I think we have a lot of time and.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: i'm sorry we feel so don't Take your time the time you need i'm.
curious.
Okay purchasing so you.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: know some licensing now.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry for this slight technical.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: inability.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The virus.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Well, I think I can start why Atlanta arranges.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: To succeed you pump in.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The King.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Particular.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: song.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Okay, we have to enable sound so that is a problem sorry, so are you seeing are a slides containing.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Yes.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Yes, perfect a full screen now.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: yeah morning Good afternoon, good evening everybody well the challenge made by yellow 2021 in delivering papers before its discussion allows us now to perform a kind of rereading of our argument.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So more than presenting you with an outline of our paper, hopefully, we will also be able to share new insight into what motivated us to write about this whole idea of language as a virus.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So to recap in our paper our argument comprises four main transmission links.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The first one regards the impacts of former pandemics in language and vice versa, leading us to think of William burroughs idea of language as a virus in most.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Particularly the following quotes I have frequently spoken a word in the image of an image as viruses or as acting as viruses, and this is not an allegorical comparison.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Secondly, juicy particles idea virus is going well beyond the allegorical, namely digital viruses that are becoming biological, in other words, organic resume matic and even mycorrhizal networks, made the viruses and language.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Taking the Internet as an ideal ecosystem for the propagation of the former.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Thirdly, Alexander Galloway and eugene factors understanding of the relevance of networks and sub networks in viral transmission.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And, once again, the role of the Internet as a network congregating many different traditional networks communications information, social, cultural, media platforms.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And finally, the idea of goods viruses as explored in virology and viral therapy he replied to project art in quarantine a project that and I will explain in further detail in a few seconds.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So together these four interconnected aspects insights as to ask the following.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: If we are to recognize that language and viruses coexist with the experience and repercussions of every single pandemic.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: To what extent the concept of morality may suffer a new mutation by influence of kovats 19 most particularly, being a pandemic specifically connected to digital media and the Internet and, additionally, in which ways, will this digital infection contaminate post pandemic times Anna.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So one way of looking into Israel project are implementing as an online rtc platform.
Mar?a Goicoechea: or a sudden network of its own.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: develop adopting some of the male art principles and practices into digital.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And it in its current stage acting parenting hosts more than 900 artworks produced between March and April 2020 for more than 300 authors worldwide and being reminiscent of a good viral like behavior as mentored by you, the project manager interface that we saw here.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: functions as an art installation, including an interactive digital map in which users can track the arrival of the art books by day in location.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And in this way symbolic symbolically subverting a logic of infection contamination and contagions and by revealing, day after day, the transmission chain of artistic expression.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The item current in platform presents two types of possible displays of use.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Firstly, an individual gallery and here we can think of for world rooms or screens containing the individual factor like experiences of each of the participants authors in confinement due to poverty 19.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And secondly, a collective gallery featuring featuring all of the artworks and presenting yet with another possible type of experience, there is the possibility of identifying.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Artistic patterns from a global pandemic experience.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And for the purpose of this conference, and regardless of their factual nature, we chose three art books from project art and parenting.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: That falls under the spectrum of electronic literature and that will allow us to discuss the ways in which.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Artistic representations from the pandemic are indeed permeating by digital media and aesthetics and apparatus.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: and condemn confirming the idea that did utility mediates and every single aspect of this pandemic.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Additionally, we believe that these three examples can be representative of burrows understanding or language in its material dimensions and infectious ability.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: to generate and transmit meaning in both as a medium and a significant of its own and assuming it's a symbiotic relationship with your host.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry, so moving to the artworks the first ones that says offline in in it.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: liberally leave a nice visual artist and photographer based in Paris Clara eben other makes use of screen captures and screen recordings of her mobiles videos photos and text notes.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: In order to prove the performance of an l tentative daily life, while confinement.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So being largely deprived from physical access to the outside world, the call for videos and photographs stored in her mobile phone.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Are here used to reconnect to nature by revisiting a specific selection of summertime visual trump's.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So, and then using a layer of textual notes intended to express in sorial emotional and psychological experiences associated with her memories.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The author creates a fictional narrative and infectious literary constructor overlapping present reality indoors and weaving meaning into the otherwise isolated videos and images portrayed.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: In our second example patient zero by Portuguese digital artist Vega.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Another station of Le Elizabeth Jennings poem in memory of anyone unknown to me is used as part of an interactive online Memorial, with different kind of.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: mimicking the action of a virus the bomb is hacked and transformed into dust that death text destiny make sentences.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: With these sentences dialogue with an interactive representation of the coronavirus transmission chain which individuals are here, represented by bright blue particles.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Except for patient zero a single initially infected individual represented in contrasting read.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: By interacting with it the observer was cursor is presented as the economy light accelerates the contact between infected individuals, reading the disease and increasing the death.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: of individuals real name agent country of origin generated from actual neck national databases are finally made visible by the author humanizing otherwise undifferentiated anonymized articles.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And finally, our third example and conclude our presentation here represents a distinct form of digital content.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: A different form of digital content created by Polish artist mathematician in composer Robert be wiser viral capital allows for the combination of the naacp in that the different viruses he gradually transform in.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: generating you entwine.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The newly generated winters are then converted in real time pointing tolerance sound outcomes and retroactive back.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Thank you.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: do go on, I know.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: time for a nice cab service.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: I thank you.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So I will.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Leave approach to ambien lita.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: We were speaking yesterday about that embedded spoken manalo be an enhanced interaction metallic she's.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: going to share.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So do you see my screen yes.
Yes.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Okay, so I will try to sum up my paper and, as I said earlier, I also have a lot of thoughts after the Conference, and I will try to speak, instead of reading so it can be a little more than five minutes sorry for that I think it's a little better.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So, mostly my paper oh.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: yeah was focus on concept of a mentor literature, which, as most of you know, was proposed by in the project.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: conducted by free.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: English universities and it was a very interesting R amp D project focus mostly on the future of writing, and this project was.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: conducted in a deep dialogue with publishing industry, so the main question was how to create text for the future, the literature that can interactive our.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: On the end so out of the starting point the concept was about creating text which are able to respond to the side of reading so it was really close to look at writing.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: But in fact one day analyze the concept of ambient day for not only about physical surroundings, or the reader environment that becomes a part of story, but also about something like more metaphorical and the end our media ambient we are living in.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So in fact i'm going to literature, there is also a problem of text which rob's readers that data.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And in fact the ambient literature is a kind of umbrella term to describe what was felt to be created in the project, what can be.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: created in the future, but, as were to think about the past literature about and also about what we have now So to sum it up, I would say that.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: The starting point is that, and this kind of literature, propose a new kind of outer written contract, because the reader body is not.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: A problem to be needed, we don't have to lose our body to enter the fiction.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: There are fully embodied readings and the text seems to ask something like that do reader lend me your body, please, and then I will show you my story so to describe this kind of literary experience I used free concepts are free free trucks or features.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: All have in common, a kind of paradox, the kind of paradox that permits us to link, something that cannot be linked like fiction and actuality.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So I use the polycom says Meta lapses and syllabuses because all of them permit us to thinking about those actualization about alternatives actualization of alternatives which are normally contradictory.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So why.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: i'm into literature propose piling sisters experience.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: When our settings became part of the story, it means that different layers of reality are blended so it's something like at the beginning of when does our.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: When that protagonist is going through the city seeing the past and the present at the same time, so what was important for me is the fact that important part of the ability to to project.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: What interviews with readers and many of them said the same that they didn't distinguish the realities and that they really felt like in blended to reality, like in a real Palin sense.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And it made me thinking about that category Mecca lapses, of course, as we are speaking about the new media literature in context of interaction on the ellipses developed.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: By mostly astor dancing and Alice bad and of course I was asking about ontological my collapses because it's a crossing border between reality and fiction our world not between different layers of fiction.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: But I was inspired by the final part of the recently published built by our street and ali's when they asked about vr experiences as the kind of.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: ultimate interaction on the collapses, and I found what is proposed an ambient literature.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Even most old teammates that one, so our proposal my paper that the time enhance interaction or mental lapses by.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: But a thinking today, after all, the discussion we we could experience during this conference, I think that maybe just automate interaction on at Alexis or even ambient into action item that mega lapses will be the better time.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: To describe that and what is crucial for this concept is the fact that those that don't ask you to enact and in any way they don't ask you to step in someone's shoes.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: They just permit you to be yourself in your surroundings and at the same time be part of the story, and this is the third step for me.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: What about this reader being a kind of protagonist I adopt the concept of celebrity I propose, many years ago by Irish up niche and it was proposed to describe the speaking I in literature, which is very paradoxical because it needs to be.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: fought at the same time as the real one, and as the fiction on one it was mostly used to speak about um about literature, in which the relation between the Alto and the speaking I was kind of a gay, so I felt about literature as a kind of our literature, in which you.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: can apply this kind of paradox, to the reader because this reader.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: functions in two different realities, at the same time, so I use the example here, which I didn't use my paper, but just to make it more visible, those are books or electronic books which have a kind of a hall.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Which is a kind of a gap that can also be described a kind of mental lactic machine, because there is something in your fiction award that connects you with the fiction.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So this reader its protagonist this elliptic you is the reader of flesh and blood.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And at the same time he can be active and frequently he is addressing of the narrative so I try to show it with three examples which are quite different and in which you can see exactly how it can be.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: kind of how it can be realized and, of course, it can be profound it better, that I did in my paper, and then I go to the the other way of seeing this gap.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: For the reader because if you need a gap in that story for the reader you frequently do it with a narrative structure, so I was thinking about a very frequent use of second person narrative.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: intimate literature it's not the only one case, you can use also the other kinds of narrative but I was thinking about that also very old category of spoken monologue it's a kind of.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: narrative in which this you is always present and the eye is speaking to someone even this someone isn't present so it's kind of paradoxical.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Dialogue and it was proposed as attempt to describe this kind of literature, which was created, like the albert's coming in the fall, which was the first example of the kind of.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: literature, so I was thinking that what happens in i'm mentally to try is kind of embodiment of the structure.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: In fact, this gap for the reader who responds is put in the actual world so.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So you as the reader is the one who is the one which responds to the story and who is the one who should listen that.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: In fact, those kinds of narratives can be because of that for also like a kind of literary work in form of this call or a kind of performance so to close my presentation I use the.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: example of her long black hair but done at Cardiff, which is our do walk in which you can see all of those.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: aspects and the pictures that the listener, is using to connect him with this story makes it obvious that it's just embedded form of spoken monologue and it makes this gap for the reader.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: really concrete and truly presence in actual world, so I hope that some of this example, hard to understand what I was trying to say my paper is still kind of a draft, and I will be really helpful for any advice and comments and I will try to stop sharing my screen.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Thank you very much.
Mar?a Goicoechea: We cannot hear you.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Oh sorry.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I was reading your paper is morning and I feel like you were with me, reading the few book.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: With your with your overview about.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: That.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Okay let's go ahead with Maria will go to.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: With the after protecting a post digital world.
Mar?a Goicoechea: In queue for data we're going to share my screen.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Yes.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Yes, Okay, thank you very much i'm going to try to summarize the main ideas I wrote in this.
Mar?a Goicoechea: essay which has this very pretentious title Var object in a digital world, I wanted to reflect, maybe, especially on two labels that have been used to define sets of artifacts that I think are born of the see out of the same context and talking about term both digital and post Internet.
Mar?a Goicoechea: In particular i'm going to focus on the work of ideas that use instagram as an art gallery for executing their work or.
Mar?a Goicoechea: On the other hand, to sabotage the platform from the inside, these are works that come from the artistic sphere, but I think they bear a family resemblance to electronic literature.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The US explore the narrative process in the construction of an artist identity, the changing territories of human machine artists expect director interactions and digital analog materialisation Actually, I think we are all three panels or all three papers.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Addressing the same issue, the art optics that are being produced can be classified as for digital like physical and digital construct.
Mar?a Goicoechea: That in have it in a myriad of different possibilities of mediation and convergence, the spaces of mixed reality.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So, as the artist explore the platform's potential as exhibition space advertising side and conversational I their digital objects reflect the tension.
Mar?a Goicoechea: between a nostalgia for an analog craftsmanship which rebels against mechanic perfection.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And an interrogation of human creativity that propels us into the future, to an ever more profound symbiosis with our technological habitus, so let us first define or very quickly i'm just going to point out a few.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And elements or signs that I have found.
Mar?a Goicoechea: When did these terms appear well, they have been around since the year 2000 when, for example, electronic music composer King concerning.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Inspired by Negroponte a sentence digital revolution is over, he decided to refer to type of non academic self taught music electronic music, as well as digital.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And from that moment the pulse digital has been associated with this process of commoditization in our everybody can become an artist mean you know, using do it yourself technologies low tech recycled materials, etc.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So they're there what I think is interesting is to locate what kind of features these works share also with electronic literature, you know this logic of extruding data, this new gold, you know, both as a creative practice, but also as a method to attribute cultural value so.
Mar?a Goicoechea: there's also this question of how are we going to make our art, something that can also be sold, you know, so there, there are certain features like this nostalgic retro mania that Kramer was also describing this mix of old and new media in their creations.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So the post is the condition requires the artist, which is really everyone to become his or her own agent using platforms, such as instagram as exhibition venues to attract audiences and make their art viral So in this sense.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The the platform is at the same time performing several roles, you know and that's what I would like to analyze here, at the same time.
Mar?a Goicoechea: I think it was concurrent to the emergence of post digital as a term artist myself some also refer as port post Internet at.
Mar?a Goicoechea: To discuss a series of you know, artists, that began to reflect on the impact of the use of the Internet and its technologies, but using creative venues that were outside the Internet.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Returning to the plasticity of objects in the physical space of the gallery some critics have also seen this as a way to be able to sell you know net art to transform it into an object.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So Murray sell some quotes RT your current who describes this type of art, as a result of the contemporary moment inherently informed by ubiquitous authorship development of attention as currency.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The collapse of physical space in network, culture and the infinite reproducibility and mutability of digital materials.
Mar?a Goicoechea: As, as I mentioned the paper, there are so many you know critics that are very negative with respect to post Internet art is very famous the post by Brian tricor.
Mar?a Goicoechea: entitled why I hate post Internet art that says that post Internet artist to art would porn does to sex, you know, implying that was the only thing that was Internet artists want is to be successful in the art world, more than anything else, that they are not.
Mar?a Goicoechea: That they lack the craftsmanship abilities that we associate with artistic production, like the only thing well made is the commercial gadgets that they introduce in there, you know exhibitions well, I think we need to analyze the more that you know.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Each.
Mar?a Goicoechea: piece to see you know if it's really.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Something just commercial or if he has an interesting message to say so, this is what i'm going to describe that.
Mar?a Goicoechea: This artist share something in common, they are concerned with the the possibilities of.
Mar?a Goicoechea: and introducing this tension in their artistic creations between the different layers know that we have it at the same time.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So the digital ontology of the digital art is not have a single.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Quality we can find physical objects in digital environments digital objects in physical environments like very.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Different you know combinations and technology is moving our horizon of expectations, even beyond because each day new possibilities know are being created, but what i'm interested in analyzing is.
Mar?a Goicoechea: That, even though the range of possibilities is very wide and artist, you know with their imagination, they decide to even take them beyond the our expectations.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Each time, you you use augmented reality or augmented reality in your work you're also indirectly posing a question now.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And positioning your work, regarding your concept or your understanding of reality is physical reality lacking and that's why you have to amend it in this way.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Or what is the correct balance between ourselves and our technological processes and, and this is what I would like to to analyze in this works which are the.
Mar?a Goicoechea: First, digital processes that artists are introducing in the works, how do they use instagram so how is this is strategies, you know integrate.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The platforms and as well, of course, this list is very personal and maybe we can discuss it later, but I have identified some.
Mar?a Goicoechea: strategies that I have found in several you know works, so I think they're they're not just connected to one particular.
Mar?a Goicoechea: proposal, but they are very frequent now like recycling technological detritus or this type of post digital actresses we contextualize in the platform.
Mar?a Goicoechea: communicative strategies by taking it outside and introducing it in the physical space for example of a gallery.
Mar?a Goicoechea: or the other way around, how we use augmented spirituality to introduce physical objects, like a SOFA that we want to sell in this very ethereal you know ambien.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So that we are somehow regaining the artistic or in the digital space, or should we say just the commercial you know attractiveness.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Another strategy will be flooding the platforms veracity principle, and these are the ones that I see a sabotaging the logic of the platform from the inside, and also creating in plausible exhibit seizing instagram and also.
Mar?a Goicoechea: making explicit this tension with.
Mar?a Goicoechea: instagram as a space to to show work, you know as opposed to a physical gallery, so I have, like several examples to showcase.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A strategies that I have found, like, for example, the artist corey Archangel in one of his most famous works as super Mario cloud what he has done is to you know.
Mar?a Goicoechea: eliminate from the day the game, the graphics that are in the foreground so the only thing that remains is the path from moving clouds.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And this is really connected with what cousin he wrote in his article about the importance of detritus for ground by product in the past, digital art that by exploring the blind spots, you know those things that we don't pay attention to like the detritus of our society, we may.
Mar?a Goicoechea: have a better idea or a better description of who or how we are as a society rather than the perfected piece of art, I use found very interesting, the work of and within elevator.
Mar?a Goicoechea: She has been.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Very she has become famous in in Spain thanks actually to her use of instagram.
Mar?a Goicoechea: she's very active there she communicates frequently with her audience and she feels feels compelled to bring this digital consumption and communication modes of instagram into the physical gallery so she actually with this.
Mar?a Goicoechea: exhibition, which is one exhibition inside and other.
Mar?a Goicoechea: She wants to highlight how we are in an instagram you know consuming images just with a click of our finger very fast and there's always this need for visual you know gratification.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Another artist that I think uses the the digital space of the platforms to recreate an aura it's in this a Spanish artist based in Barcelona, let me see if I can activate the immediate.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Well, what he.
Mar?a Goicoechea: uses the space of.
Mar?a Goicoechea: keys.
Mar?a Goicoechea: I think i'm going to stop the video, because otherwise I won't be able to talk well what he does is he creates different pieces of furniture or fabrics and he introduces the object that he wants to sell in this very surreal.
Mar?a Goicoechea: scenarios the spiritual spaces in 3D and is a safe finally in those digital spaces, the object acquires like any theory or a sense of belonging and I think it's interesting also.
Mar?a Goicoechea: For example, how these artists.
Mar?a Goicoechea: That use 3D rendering software to move beyond or to move sorry from one level of reality to another.
Mar?a Goicoechea: For example, Lucy hardcastle studio based in London and with I think 1000 followers on instagram also very popular.
Mar?a Goicoechea: She investigates the tension between technology and traditional crafts, now, and she also says that who work, you know emerges from this post Internet pieces.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So in this case the process moves like this from the qualities of physical objects like liquid stuff materials eyes and their textures She then takes these qualities to her, you know digital objects through 3D sculptures and digital images and then these.
Mar?a Goicoechea: suffuse back in physical materials like printed fabrics to make rocks to make curtains etc, so there is a kind of complain, you know effect because sometimes you kind of distinguish is this.
Mar?a Goicoechea: For example, is a 3D rendering was actually a piece of glass a when they use their photographs to talk about their project they realized that the spectator kind of distinguish any longer, this is like a kind of game or cloning.
Mar?a Goicoechea: From the physical space to the digital and backend so as we have seen in Lucy hardcastle raising your and low beta.
Mar?a Goicoechea: There is a return to the physical object craftsmanship is important, the still the spaces seem to be clearly separated so in the case of Lucy hardcastle is a bit more difficult.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Then I would like to show you mine well there's there's just more artists finish the work of Amalia woman and her project excellence and perfection.
Mar?a Goicoechea: is one example, I have used to talk about this strategy flouting the platform's veracity principle which is already very weak, but in this case the.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The artists Texas know it gives it another child to school well in her work that you can read in in my paper she completely makes.
Mar?a Goicoechea: a parody you know of the type of profiles that.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Young girls leaf or using instagram and she, of course, confuses her friends and family because they don't know if she's for real or just making things up, but she completely tells a fake story through photographs, like, for example, this other artists intimidate from NATO, who made.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A Facebook project pixelated in her photographs were in both cases where is subversive is that the real identity of the artists remains always elusive.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Either right faking up and now yet popular ego or self centered in it before the platform has a chance to do it, so the artists invents new norms for the algorithm to deal with, and my final example is.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A juice fast the parallel compression artifacts and he is his project, I have chosen it to to.
Mar?a Goicoechea: show this last strategy that a theme impossible exhibit site in instagram would heat, it is.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Constructing a secret location what appears to be like the room in a in a gallery or an exhibition space.
Mar?a Goicoechea: There is is impossible for any expectation to actually reach that space, because we are not informed of its existence until everything is completely destroyed and brought to ashes.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So the process was recorded and then post produced to comment, the size or decrease it in different digital images and and what remains in the is.
Mar?a Goicoechea: kind of archival project a series of recorded videos and photographs that are disseminated in the networks so as an animal lover and stories in this piece, we also find an exhibition inside another exhibition, so what is.
Mar?a Goicoechea: discuss really is the the exhibition space, the container because the the art objects, in a sense, become by now.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So with these different examples and to conclude.
Mar?a Goicoechea: I want to say that artists can use instagram and other platforms in various ways, but what I have found is that they very often use it either to disseminate their work, you know.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Or to pose a critical stance regarding the algorithms commercial logic.
Mar?a Goicoechea: They are aware of the commercial objectives of the platforms and they tried to skew or a prop appropriate them, you know, depending on their intention so very often they they are a mixture of post Internet like consumer and posted it up, probably more reflective.
Mar?a Goicoechea: and
Mar?a Goicoechea: What I see is that, in the same way that was Internet art became a reflection from the outside, from you know outside the digital space on Internet reception habits.
Mar?a Goicoechea: We have also observed in this digital electronic literature, this type of overture tours all the works that might not be strictly classified as electronic literature.
Mar?a Goicoechea: But praying from a similar experimentation with platforms and artistic creation, they are Travers by are going through computer programs mechanic spaces.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And they're also trying to reach out, you know new audiences by all the strategies, you know necessary so as close relatives in the artistic field.
Mar?a Goicoechea: We have identified same impulses in electronic literature as in you know this type of Internet art, but what I think will be interesting, is to reflect what happens not to them.
Mar?a Goicoechea: To to our concept of medium when.
Mar?a Goicoechea: One space seems to reproduce nearly with with perfection now the qualities of the other medium.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So Spanish critic hermosa, for example, he believes that the digital art the the idea of the medium is completely destroyed with the message know.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Maybe destroys is too extreme but both digital art, certainly in our problem at ISIS the idea of medium through these interconnection of different layers and all the possibilities, but I think, maybe we can discuss this later that as a new.
Mar?a Goicoechea: forms of artistic expression that are always very self reflective with regards to their material medium in electronic literature as in computer art in general, since new technologies appearing constantly we don't seem to be able to go outside this constant very repetitive.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Meta reflection regarding the medium now, so this is something that maybe we could discuss now, what is certain is that artists are.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A forever altering the platforms, most of consumption and production by making them explicit.
Mar?a Goicoechea: but are they, as I finished with my article berating audiences to this perpetual state of distraction by fostering the platform logic of giving more more images to consume.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Or are they trying to recuperate this sense of contemplation litecoin instead inside ourselves to to be able to connect with the art.
Mar?a Goicoechea: piece, and at the same time, find some insight now that helps us live better and there has tried to put too many ideas in my paper i'm really sorry for that that maybe now we can discuss them and stop sharing and that's it, thank you very much.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Thank you, Maria Thank you to your.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: applause for all of you.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I am learning a lot with you.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: For me, what is interesting to see is how your your papers dialogue with each other.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: mm hmm in the perspective, you you offer from my gaze over global at last and map.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: With the platform Sunday surroundings, the context the ambient and after that focusing into the Ad object, but that very.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Close abroad, my deed goes again to the global.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: So it's really, really interesting and I also can see the police me off of that physical object that more while is then mobile phone the smartphone and which is like a service with most of the examples you are explaining.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: And not only for reading also for creating.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Like like the works do go and then I showed and the vt Dan Maria.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: defined he's that double condition be to our physical we took their the object, we take the object with us every day in our life.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: it's it's a thing to take into account and and also, I can see.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: In all your papers that play with the movement with moving and don't move.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: It was very interesting for me to sit in my ass and I moved in Alberta work with their.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: i'm taking photos.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Of a at object, but the person was and the people they didn't move and the art objects were moving.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: So very, very interesting and not is not a panel what.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: would be.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: let's see if we have some questions or comments in the chat.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I think la.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: cloud it.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Do you want to say it Clara or prefer me to read.
CLARA CHETCUTI: You can read it out to be like.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I said that road that i'm very curious to know how or whether ambient litter is these things from the augmented reality experience and also from your captive narratives which do not require the reader to role play or to vocalize through a cat here.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: For me as.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Well, thank you Clara for this question because it's just.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: The main part of my problems and maybe I can start with that that it's not clear for the ability to project researchers and in case of locate if narratives.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: They even have to tap to like why we are not located and but at the same time, then they use examples of located narratives, so this is a very complicated, but to give you a good example.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: I discovered that the example I use that the first one, which was proposed, which was presented at the last conference so that's why I use that.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: It is a walk made by my students at it was made out of the cost of located narratives.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So for me it's example of lucrative narrative so fast second that the second one project was which was made with the same technology.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: For me it's example of located narrative but it's not ambience so I tried to catch the difference here and I thought that this use of phone, because in.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: jail negotiate school at the beginning of the story, someone who is talking to you.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: and says that you have this form as a kind of connector between them and even a lot of ironic comments how all this fun is.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And all bad things which happens frequently with located narratives that you lose GPS signal, or something like that so in the story all of those things are.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: made by the old phone so it's not the fault of the story of the technology that's the fault of the reader okay so so it's just part of making key part of the story, and the second project.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: was very like a game, but was connected to the lot of more, as we have in our city, so it was the story in which you were as a listener reader.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: asked to discover the story of one more which is missing in this our story, because it was just you know replaced with the other thing.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And you go from one point to another, and you got some puzzles to solve, and so on and so on, but you are on a listener, so this fall and this kind of narration.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: is only something that permits you go through the story, so you are not in fact part of the story world, and I think it's that the main difference, and when I thought about.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: us through it and as leland Alice bell concept, this was for me, the main difference when we think about interaction on my collapses as.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: As they described that mostly in the previous articles you think about kind of using your body as a tool to interact with the story, and there is no dis federal step to permit you to be part of the story.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So this is one point, and the second thing which is um I also think, very important.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: I think it's not sin in my paper but in abundance literature, the second person, which invites you to be a protagonist is invite you to this role playing.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: is frequent but it's not always case of that and I use the example of imaginary, which is a wonderful work, so if you don't know it's please read it's really amazing.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: piece in which you are part of the story, and the stories written the second person narrative so it's a perfect example that it's not the you narrative and draw playing case and then you have.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Things like i'm things I mean pieces like okay to put into a brief in which generation is in fact the first person duration, so there is no rock like for you to to play.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: But the reader is the one who needs to listen to the story so it's exactly the case of spoken monologue and then in fact you discovered that your form was also.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Somehow you know freedom by ghost.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Like it happens to the protagonist, so there is no there's one moment in which does not or a protagonist sighs i'm speaking to you as my mother was speaking to me but there's no specific you.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Addressing in the story so that's why I say about it selectric protagonists not celebrity Q, but that does so many you know.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: dobbs in this area so it's very, very nice question but also really difficult to be asked words just in one moment, so thank you for that, and I hope that I, I give you some kind of response.
CLARA CHETCUTI: Yes, you definitely do thank you, I suspect, is a bit thorny.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: i'm in the esca.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: And monster.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: Yes.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: You want to yeah.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: yeah I can just read it.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: I guess that's the easiest.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: way, first of all, thanks to all of the panelists or presenters in this thing that has been accumulated into a panel.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: That was been really fascinating so I have a question about this notion of post digital which, of course, was in maria's.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: Presentation but what's also have a title for the panel so i'm guessing all of you kind of fit into this in some way, if not, then please correct me.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: But i'm thinking specifically of this notion of post digital so Eric snodgrass uses it in one of his.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: His articles as a kind of enter morphosis that is like a viewing device through which you can see, specific things about something else.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: In this case, about the digital so through the post digital in this in this version it's not something that comes after the digital right it's not a temporal post is more like a conceptual posts so.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: insistent existing alongside the digital but something that makes you able to see the digital so some kind of almost collected entity that you can then reflect upon through the postage.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: And even though this is the concept is is usually difficult to grasp essay as a simple thing.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: And so, so, in the end that's actually works through this kind of self reflexivity and banality that I think.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: You all have in some parts of your work, especially Maria, of course, you also pointed to.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: And so, so in that case it's not it's not something you weren't bringing in and assist specific reference so So my question is then.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: If we take this premise of the Pope digital as Anna morphoses as something that reveals something about the digital what is it then that the works that you have been engaging with what what do they reveal to us about the digital as something.
Malthe Stavning Erslev: And it's a very broad question but i'm just interested in hearing your responses.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Okay, shall I start and then maybe you gonna.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Do and, yes, can Maybe you can add something.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Of course, your question is very, very difficult and I wish I could answer it, but I can only point to my own, you know reflections on this subject, I have the feeling that Well, this is something that artists forever have consulted on, so this is nothing new, but what I think is that.
Mar?a Goicoechea: What this digital artists are doing with respect to digital culture is something similar to what last one three year and dogma did with respect to cinema, which is like kind of making explicit.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The forms of communication and reception that we have not realized regarding help.
Mar?a Goicoechea: In no matter how unnatural they are how artificial they are they they have been integrated in our lives or without us really paying too much attention so like they They point out, they make very conspicuous forms of communication and reception that we you know, sometimes.
Mar?a Goicoechea: We fall into the trap without too much reflection and i'm thinking, for example, about this idea of constantly the visual gratification that these artists.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A us because sometimes they use it for their own benefit, you know and they continue to propagate the same logic that the platform does, I think it was Kenneth Cole me.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Who said that whenever we need to like the platform algorithm or that they there is this idea hey there is a consumer, you know look around there so.
Mar?a Goicoechea: I think they make certain things more conspicuous when when you see people recording and within elevate as exhibition with their smartphones and then following instructions like.
Mar?a Goicoechea: uploading those videos to their own instagram stories and being being part of the work but also.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Consumers in instagram then it hit me not like wow This is like we go to an art exhibit.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Like we got to the supermarket is more important than the selfie that we take or the video that we regret and actually what artists all about you know this is like a childish form of interaction with art that I think she she points out, or that was my impression.
Mar?a Goicoechea: I don't know if you want to add something else.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: From our point of view, I think we can add something else from at least two different perspectives one is that while we were reading and, yes, and Maria Maria papers.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: We started rereading our own paper and having into account the theme of the this panel which it is a real panel and what came to mind was that there are a series of convergences.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: But there is at least a small divergence that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: turns everything here around the inverse of the whole logic which is taking into account the works that you analyze and the work that we analyzed through art in quarantine.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: For the first time, there was the need to use digital media, because we were all in confinement, but there is a thing that we started thinking about.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Which is the referential reality of these each one of the works sent by participants.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And there is a reference to the rooms, there are spaces and we can also analyze it by analyzing the visual patterns of the collective gallery so when we.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: came into your your turn the term you use the digital which in transcription with we discovered that it is worth $50 so that, when you say.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: turns up that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: yeah so it reminds us of Berlin Berlin gotchas I think that she was telling words, a few years ago.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: But the the feature told is that that's the whole logic in the whole circle, if you want.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The disruption processes used by artists pre before coven 19 and after coven 19 will bring we think we think we do not know this.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: A different at least a different perspective to the notion of post digital.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Because we will not be immune to this US So this was also our our question, we will say it, and then, if you want, you can add that later something to it.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And the question was how do you feel that these artists in these works any even your idea of post digital can suffer small changes after this pandemic, so this would be our arm our question you want to add something else um.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Well, in our just looking at the art in parenting.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Our books that we've shown some some of them, but.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: it's difficult to it's difficult to.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: understand what could have been different in those works if the the artists that produce them weren't forced to use, you know digital medium and.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: But what we can say on analyzing those works is that the influence of the digital it's not only through the use of the technologies or the medium, but we felt that there was even an aesthetic influence on the digital on their works and that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: We also came to the conclusion that it was related to the virus itself so it's again it's if you got to understand it if it was another topics of the virus influence that because.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Somehow the two things converge and we felt that the seven some experts of the digital aesthetics were useful to talk about some experts of the video.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry, of the virus experienced by as an immaterial airborne transmission think some always this duality between what's visible and what's invisible.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And the artists F played with that using digital like once and this dichotomy between inside and outside world, you know windows and screens there this.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Call it visual tropes because in the Arctic, we don't talk about you didn't talk about these in the presentation, but we regard to.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Some of our be vibrance methodology in the Ad was members in projects, so we were looking for you know kind of psychoanalytic approach in the analyst is of the images and but we felt that in this works, the digital was presence in all kinds of ways, but the question is how to go versus.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: How will it be about when we return hopefully to the.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: outside world, how will this digital infection force digital infection will affect.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Well, mercifully artistic creation.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Because there were lots of artists that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: and your few that never have never worked with digital medium before and they took the opportunity to experiment, so they rediscovered.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: This medium and this different language, we can say so.
Mar?a Goicoechea: we'll.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: we'll see how it is, but we wanted to ask you this, if this pandemic experience or more this.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Experience of artistic creation during and then we'll can affect your idea of post digital what you can park them.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Well, as I told you, before we started.
Mar?a Goicoechea: He somehow ignored the pandemic completely when I was selecting the works, and then I realized oh my God what am I doing, but what I thought is that, as he has happened in education in many other.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Fields the pandemic has just accelerated a process that was already begun had already begun.
Mar?a Goicoechea: So, in the same way that artists that had not been acquainted with digital tools, now they kind of look the other way I see this is there is like a point of no return and i'm not very sure of how we are going to come back to normalcy I don't think there's going to be.
Mar?a Goicoechea: an easy return, because we have been altered forever, you know, and I think that.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Would would be interesting to see is like I really like that you brought the wearables atlas never seen a again to the picture, because this was pre digital completely, but it already had this logic of infection and how images, you know also are.
Mar?a Goicoechea: It talking about themselves and they have in them the virus of how to read them and they are contagious so.
Mar?a Goicoechea: The Internet has become you know what boots atlas but in a gigantic scale.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And when you search for images in Google, would you find you know these connections through simulated but sometimes the simulated is not only graphical or iconic.
Mar?a Goicoechea: It also has to do with the keywords that people have used to introduce them so it's a mixture of languages and you get a very, very strange.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Like unconscious combination of different you know artifacts the machine has done it, but maybe an artist would have you know arrive to similar you know strange concatenation or you know just a position of images and I think is here to stay, you know so of course I don't like this post.
Mar?a Goicoechea: prefixes because we are just there you know, and I think it will be more interesting to see what's coming ahead, and you know I prefer protocol as a prefix.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Because he he opens.
Mar?a Goicoechea: A new world of possibilities and and digital technologies seem to be continuously receding this horizon of expectations.
Mar?a Goicoechea: And I think this is also something that makes a lot of the creations by now.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Because art normally you know is classified as something exceptional when it's confronted to the limitations of the medium, but when the medium is constantly expanding and offering new possibilities for the creators.
Mar?a Goicoechea: How can you detect that something is the perfect work of art, with respect to another thing you know we are sometimes distracted by this kind of digital fireworks like oh my God, how did you do, that no but.
Mar?a Goicoechea: In fact, maybe the graphic designer the process is completely you know, simple and absurd, but people that do not know you know those.
Mar?a Goicoechea: processes and very easily surprised, and I think that's something.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Different okay.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Thank you, Maria because we have two more questions.
Sorry.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: We will it always.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Has a question really.
Rui Torres: Thank you everyone.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Hello.
Rui Torres: How are you graduations to our presenters for the wonderful ideas expressed in your talks I have a comment, perhaps a question.
Rui Torres: Regarding and and the logos aren't in quarantine project, the online gallery which currently hosts more than 900 artworks and I ever read your paper and there's a moment that you write something like.
Rui Torres: Good viral like behavior intrinsic to male art, culture and communities working as seven networks, I love these ideas of good viruses, because they allow us to proceed art as transmission and contamination words that I hope will not leave our vocabulary.
Rui Torres: And I agree that male art, as you say, but also process bowen or even fluxes activities they constitute important antecedents of the the language art or electronically trigger.
Rui Torres: i've been doing some research lately with collective publications of the 60s and the 70s and there is an international turbulence and complexity even chaos that presides over the creation of those publications.
Rui Torres: and digital platforms, they seem to appropriate some of the aspects that we find in male art, culture, allowing for the integration of a variety of a static coordinates and practices, however, most times they are, they are constrained by the fourth and c's and limitations of software code.
Rui Torres: So I tend to believe that custom made platforms, such as yours embracing collaborative networks, they contribute to the expansion of elite more than just simply.
Rui Torres: Adopting or adapting ourselves to existing platforms, because they allow artworks to be disseminated in informal networks and to circulate in alternative formats and channels.
Rui Torres: What I mean to say is that the words you presented seem to intentionally differ from normative status of official museums and galleries and therefore they have a good viral like behavior like I think all electronically Twitter should ever do you agree with me your when.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: I can start and then.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Maybe you can add something on instagram so yeah Thank you Louis for wonderful comment, yet I mean.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: When we started the yards in parenting project from one day to another, we woke up and.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: started thinking, what can we do working in confinement and we have to do something with what we few things we we can do, or we want to do, and one of the things that came to mind was to use.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The networks of my alert which we work weighted with because, mainly because the it seems like a bit contradictory in terms of they use a snail mail.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: it's apparently opposite to the idea of digital networks, so there is a small detail that changes, the whole thing here, which is.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: We started by using mail art networks through social networks, this is an interesting thing because we came to 900 heart for artworks that are not exclusive of male art artists.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: In the result was artists by works by professional and also non professional artists, which is part of our.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: curator ship.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And the thing is that we managed to see after it was completed this first stage, we managed to see this apparent in congruence has a continuity.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So, for the first time that these artists were needed to use it to communicate through platforms, that they were not, most of them were not used to.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Another thing, and I will leave this to Anna is the when we start to compare it with other projects that started at the same time, but using social networks such as instagram, for example, covina art museum.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Well, thank you for it it's really nice to know that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: You can feel that is a good virus goodness in the project yeah so we had our life was very much facilitated because we use the sub networks of mailers that already had a lot of the principles that we wanted to convey in our projects, so it was intentionally obviously.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: But.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: There was a second reasons for doing it obviously for.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: aesthetic reasons when can say because we we really wanted to create a platform and mainly an interface that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: also convey the an artistic and symbolic message right, so we could only do that it was a custom and problem interface, and then the more.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Critical or political stance and say even of trying to escape the logic of like I don't know how many projects of art in quarantine that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: came to existence during pandemic popular museum is one of them in instagram but we felt that these projects with we're very much limited to.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: The the platforms that that we're hosting them and in most Specifically, these are, it could be that museum instagram we really wanted to escape that consumers logic of really instantaneous consuming of image.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: And we wanted, because we wanted to create a network within sub network and and we felt that those kinds of.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: platforms didn't allow us to work with these two levels of individuality, but also creating a collective sense.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: of union between all of the artworks.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: So.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: It was off radical and the reasons that we chose to do it, but of course always.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: we'd we had a purpose for doing it, and we also wanted, then I will finish it briefly, we also wanted to go to what will now become.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: A second stage of the project, which is to give continuity to it, taking into account the changes that we are.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: feeling in through this pandemic, one of the things that the reviewer said, and we appreciated that was can you talk about future developments of the Platform, the idea here will be to present another mutation in.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: This place with the idea palimpsest by that and he has also mentioned in that made us think that if we invite all.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: 300 or 350 artists to rethink their work, we can do another mutation in the platform replacing in showing how they feel or artistically about what we are now living and experiencing.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: costume a platform gave us that possible.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: I think, will give us that possibility yes.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: I am.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry, we find out one final remark that I.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Remember okay.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: Sorry, we really wanted the mail art will also had a purpose, because we didn't want to being a digital projects and we felt that in other digital project type we felt that.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: There was a tendency to create more visual.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: visual art works and we wanted to broaden broaden the scope of the outputs and we had.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: In it resulted in a multiple gender and types of workloads we have classical pictures that were we had i'm remembering this.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: really nice lady that paints that makes watercolors and asked for her nephew to photograph the water calls and we have a photograph of Lady next to the water cooler so we wanted to create a more inclusive inclusive.
Ana Gago / Diogo Marques: projects, and I think that's in the spirit of the male art to think you were saying combining professional mercial and non professional artists.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: Okay Okay, we we have out of time now.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: So thank you all.
Oreto Dom?nech i Masi?: For the questions they comment on the dialogue see you later in another screen space.
Mar?a Goicoechea: Thank you.